At birth, your data trail began. You were given a name, your height and weight
were recorded, and probably a few pictures were taken. A few years later, you
were enrolled in day care, you received your first birthday party invitation,
and you were recorded in a census. Today, you have a Social Security or national
ID number, bank accounts and credit cards, and a smart phone that always knows
where you are. Perhaps you post family pictures on Facebook; tweet about
politics; and reveal your changing interests, worries, and desires in thousands
of Google searches. Sometimes you share data intentionally, with friends,
strangers, companies, and governments. But vast amounts of information about you
are collected with only perfunctory consentâ€”or none at all. Soon, your entire
genome may be sequenced and shared by researchers around the world along with
your medical records, flying cameras may hover over your neighborhood, and
sophisticated software may recognize your face as you enter a store or an
airport.

For scientists, the vast amounts of data that people shed every day offer great
new opportunities but new dilemmas as well. New computational techniques can
identify people or trace their behavior by combining just a few snippets of
data. There are ways to protect the private information hidden in big data
files, but they limit what scientists can learn; a balance must be struck. Some
medical researchers acknowledge that keeping patient data private is becoming
almost impossible; instead, they're testing new ways to gain patients' trust and
collaboration. Meanwhile, how we think and feel about privacy isn't static.
Already, younger people reveal much more about their lives on the Web than older
people do, and our preferences about what we want to keep private can change
depending on the context, the moment, or how we're nudged. Privacy as we have
known it is ending, and we're only beginning to fathom the consequences.
